Aikido Presentation

Use a cool name to present and a boring name to the boss =P

You are making people life better if your presentation. The audience is not a enemy. 


Passion.


Be competent ==> Be the expert on not being a expert
Be passionate ==> Find a way to be excited about your topic
Be entertaining ==> Find a narrative in your material
Be prepared ==> One hour presenting, 100 hours training
Be stylish ==> Hard to look is hard to understand
Be engaging ==> Have a interaction is the entire point of your presentation
Be yourself ==> loose your 'self' in the stage

Be competent
        Competence is the key to confidence. Dont talk about the things you dont know. And if you dont know about it?
        The universal expertise! Talk about how you don't know that.

        We dont wanna look dumb. Don't try to fool your audience. Somehow they will know. If it's a techinical session it's even    worse.

Be passionate

        You have to care!!! You have to care!!! You have to care!!! 
        It's about projecting your passion. 

Be entertaining

        The audience is a group of monkey, not techinical machines. Entertaining always trumps informative. Presentation aren't  a  
        primary information source. Overview - Summary - Introduction - Synopsis. Build scarefold so they can build the birdge.
        - Comprehensible
        - Resonant
        - Memorable

        Tell a story! Our oldest information processing tool.

        Flow: to assist acquisition and memorization
        Hiearchy: to assist comprehension and recollection

        Historical narrative/Processe stoyrline/Anecdotal examples

Be prepared

        Unreasable time preparing your presentation. 
        1 hour of presentation = 20 hours of preparation

        How to start? Write down everything you might possibly want to say! 
        Pick five. Put all the ones that fit above these five. If something doesn't fit, throw it away!

        That give you the oportunity to walk randomly in your cognitive mind.

        After select five itens, find a narrative structure that connects them.

Be stylish

        Style is the delivery vehicle of content. Less ir more!!!

        Cognitive fluency

        Write your presentation then translate it into slides.

        Five bullet - Five words per bullets

        Takahashi style - One word per slide

        More vision and less word. What can I remove?

        Show a small portion of the code and then highlight what you want.

        Change variables to real values.

        When something on the screen, it stay there. It doesn't matter how many slides it takes.
        
        Steal from Bang and Olufsen!
        Steal from japanese culture!
        Steal from apple!
        
        But do not use the default templates from Microsoft, OpenOffice not even Keynote.

        The same font for the same purpose.
        If you use a specific font for show code, always use the same font.

                Georgia / Caslon / Garamond / Minion / Times New Roman / Times

                Lucida  Grande / Gill San / Myriad / Frutiger / Helvetica

                Monaco / Vera Sans Mono  / Lucida San Typewirter / Anonymous / Courier

                Images may be to strong. If yo want to use a strong one BE SURE it acomplishs its mission.

                Font, images and animation: Is it relevant and comunicate?

                Shadow make the text looks more smooth.

        95% percente of with and 95% of black.

        Good = Simple

        Tetris em polygraphs chart

        Examples are like punctuation. Punctuate with examples.

        Put landings in your staircase. Provide rest stops.

        Transition: fade or cut!

Be engaging

        Eye contact with your audience. 

        Connect then with you connect then with your message.

        Fear is energy.

        Master rituals: do rituals that you do in every presentation before you start so you can get calm and enter into de mood.
        Master talisms: always hava a object that is special to you. That could bring some confort, relax or good memorie.

        Take friends. If you cant, make friend in the audience before the presentation starts. 

        Stading out loud in real time to an audience three times.

        Drink water during the presentation and go to the bathroom before you start. 

        Natural is better than perfect.

        You should reward your audience after they made questions:
        "I'm glad you mentioned that."
        "You know, very few people ever think to ask that."
        "That is an important point. Thanks for raising it."

        Finish your prestentation saying "Thank you".


Be yourself

        Presentation must flow.


        Steve Jobs looks like he is always selling something.
        Laurence Lessie presentation
        Takahashi bad body language.
        Al Gore always a politician.
        David Attenborough is the best speaker on his opinion. Check it out!
